README.md, before:

# Golang Kinesis Consumer

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer) [![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer)

Kinesis consumer applications written in Go. This library is intended to be a lightweight wrapper around the Kinesis API to read records, save checkpoints (with swappable backends), and gracefully recover from service timeouts/errors.

__Alternate serverless options:__

* [Kinesis to Firehose](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/writing-with-kinesis-streams.html) can be used to archive data directly to S3, Redshift, or Elasticsearch without running a consumer application.

* [Process Kinesis Streams with Golang and AWS Lambda](https://medium.com/@harlow/processing-kinesis-streams-w-aws-lambda-and-golang-264efc8f979a) for serverless processing and checkpoint management.

## Installation

Get the package source:

    $ go get github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer

## Overview

The consumer leverages a handler func that accepts a Kinesis record. The `Scan` method will consume all shards concurrently and call the callback func as it receives records from the stream.

_Important 1: The `Scan` func will also poll the stream to check for new shards, it will automatcially start consuming new shards added to the stream._

_Important 2: The default Log, Counter, and Checkpoint are no-op which means no logs, counts, or checkpoints will be emitted when scanning the stream. See the options below to override these defaults._

```go
import(
	// ...

	consumer "github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer"
)

func main() {
	var stream = flag.String("stream", "", "Stream name")
	flag.Parse()

	// consumer
	c, err := consumer.New(*stream)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalf("consumer error: %v", err)
	}

	// start scan
	err = c.Scan(context.TODO(), func(r *consumer.Record) error {
		fmt.Println(string(r.Data))
		return nil // continue scanning
	})
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalf("scan error: %v", err)
	}

	// Note: If you need to aggregate based on a specific shard
	// the `ScanShard` function should be used instead.
}
```

## ScanFunc

ScanFunc is the type of the function called for each message read
from the stream. The record argument contains the original record
returned from the AWS Kinesis library.

```go
type ScanFunc func(r *Record) error
```

If an error is returned, scanning stops. The sole exception is when the
function returns the special value SkipCheckpoint.

```go
// continue scanning
return nil

// continue scanning, skip checkpoint
return consumer.SkipCheckpoint

// stop scanning, return error
return errors.New("my error, exit all scans")
```

Use context cancel to signal the scan to exit without error. For example if we wanted to gracefulloy exit the scan on interrupt.

```go
// trap SIGINT, wait to trigger shutdown
signals := make(chan os.Signal, 1)
signal.Notify(signals, os.Interrupt)

// context with cancel
ctx, cancel := context.WithCancel(context.Background())

go func() {
	<-signals
	cancel() // call cancellation
}()

err := c.Scan(ctx, func(r *consumer.Record) error {
	fmt.Println(string(r.Data))
	return nil // continue scanning
})
```

## Checkpoint

To record the progress of the consumer in the stream we use a checkpoint to store the last sequence number the consumer has read from a particular shard. The boolean value SkipCheckpoint of consumer.ScanError determines if checkpoint will be activated. ScanError is returned by the record processing callback.

This will allow consumers to re-launch and pick up at the position in the stream where they left off.

The uniq identifier for a consumer is `[appName, streamName, shardID]`

<img width="722" alt="kinesis-checkpoints" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/739782/33085867-d8336122-ce9a-11e7-8c8a-a8afeb09dff1.png">

Note: The default checkpoint is no-op. Which means the scan will not persist any state and the consumer will start from the beginning of the stream each time it is re-started.

To persist scan progress choose one of the following checkpoints:

### Redis Checkpoint

The Redis checkpoint requries App Name, and Stream Name:

```go
import checkpoint "github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer/checkpoint/redis"

// redis checkpoint
ck, err := checkpoint.New(appName)
if err != nil {
	log.Fatalf("new checkpoint error: %v", err)
}
```

### DynamoDB Checkpoint

The DynamoDB checkpoint requires Table Name, App Name, and Stream Name:

```go
import checkpoint "github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer/checkpoint/ddb"

// ddb checkpoint
ck, err := checkpoint.New(appName, tableName)
if err != nil {
	log.Fatalf("new checkpoint error: %v", err)
}

// Override the Kinesis if any needs on session (e.g. assume role)
myDynamoDbClient := dynamodb.New(session.New(aws.NewConfig()))

// For versions of AWS sdk that fixed config being picked up properly, the example of
// setting region should work.
//    myDynamoDbClient := dynamodb.New(session.New(aws.NewConfig()), &aws.Config{
//        Region: aws.String("us-west-2"),
//    })

ck, err := checkpoint.New(*app, *table, checkpoint.WithDynamoClient(myDynamoDbClient))
if err != nil {
  log.Fatalf("new checkpoint error: %v", err)
}

// Or we can provide your own Retryer to customize what triggers a retry inside checkpoint
// See code in examples
// ck, err := checkpoint.New(*app, *table, checkpoint.WithDynamoClient(myDynamoDbClient), checkpoint.WithRetryer(&MyRetryer{}))
```

To leverage the DDB checkpoint we'll also need to create a table:

```
Partition key: namespace
Sort key: shard_id
```

<img width="727" alt="screen shot 2017-11-22 at 7 59 36 pm" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/739782/33158557-b90e4228-cfbf-11e7-9a99-73b56a446f5f.png">

### Postgres Checkpoint

The Postgres checkpoint requires Table Name, App Name, Stream Name and ConnectionString:

```go
import checkpoint "github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer/checkpoint/postgres"

// postgres checkpoint
ck, err := checkpoint.New(app, table, connStr)
if err != nil {
  log.Fatalf("new checkpoint error: %v", err)
}

```

To leverage the Postgres checkpoint we'll also need to create a table:

```sql
CREATE TABLE kinesis_consumer (
	namespace text NOT NULL,
	shard_id text NOT NULL,
	sequence_number numeric NOT NULL,
	CONSTRAINT kinesis_consumer_pk PRIMARY KEY (namespace, shard_id)
);
```

The table name has to be the same that you specify when creating the checkpoint. The primary key composed by namespace and shard_id is mandatory in order to the checkpoint run without issues and also to ensure data integrity.

### Mysql Checkpoint

The Mysql checkpoint requires Table Name, App Name, Stream Name and ConnectionString (just like the Postgres checkpoint!):

```go
import checkpoint "github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer/checkpoint/mysql"

// mysql checkpoint
ck, err := checkpoint.New(app, table, connStr)
if err != nil {
  log.Fatalf("new checkpoint error: %v", err)
}

```

To leverage the Mysql checkpoint we'll also need to create a table:

```sql
CREATE TABLE kinesis_consumer (
	namespace varchar(255) NOT NULL,
	shard_id varchar(255) NOT NULL,
	sequence_number numeric(65,0) NOT NULL,
	CONSTRAINT kinesis_consumer_pk PRIMARY KEY (namespace, shard_id)
);
```

The table name has to be the same that you specify when creating the checkpoint. The primary key composed by namespace and shard_id is mandatory in order to the checkpoint run without issues and also to ensure data integrity.

## Options

The consumer allows the following optional overrides.

### Kinesis Client

Override the Kinesis client if there is any special config needed:

```go
// client
client := kinesis.New(session.NewSession(aws.NewConfig()))

// consumer
c, err := consumer.New(streamName, consumer.WithClient(client))
```

### Metrics

Add optional counter for exposing counts for checkpoints and records processed:

```go
// counter
counter := expvar.NewMap("counters")

// consumer
c, err := consumer.New(streamName, consumer.WithCounter(counter))
```

The [expvar package](https://golang.org/pkg/expvar/) will display consumer counts:

```
"counters": {
    "checkpoints": 3,
    "records": 13005
},
```

### Consumer starting point

Kinesis allows consumers to specify where on the stream they'd like to start consuming from. The default in this library is `LATEST` (Start reading just after the most recent record in the shard).

This can be adjusted by using the `WithShardIteratorType` option in the library:

```go
// override starting place on stream to use TRIM_HORIZON
c, err := consumer.New(
  *stream,
  consumer.WithShardIteratorType(kinesis.ShardIteratorTypeTrimHorizon)
)
```

[See AWS Docs for more options.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kinesis/latest/APIReference/API_GetShardIterator.html)

### Logging

Logging supports the basic built-in logging library or use thrid party external one, so long as
it implements the Logger interface.

For example, to use the builtin logging package, we wrap it with myLogger structure.

```
// A myLogger provides a minimalistic logger satisfying the Logger interface.
type myLogger struct {
	logger *log.Logger
}

// Log logs the parameters to the stdlib logger. See log.Println.
func (l *myLogger) Log(args ...interface{}) {
	l.logger.Println(args...)
}
```

The package defaults to `ioutil.Discard` so swallow all logs. This can be customized with the preferred logging strategy:

```go
// logger
logger := &myLogger{
	logger: log.New(os.Stdout, "consumer-example: ", log.LstdFlags),
}

// consumer
c, err := consumer.New(streamName, consumer.WithLogger(logger))
```

To use a more complicated logging library, e.g. apex log

```
type myLogger struct {
	logger *log.Logger
}

func (l *myLogger) Log(args ...interface{}) {
	l.logger.Infof("producer", args...)
}

func main() {
	log := &myLogger{
		logger: alog.Logger{
			Handler: text.New(os.Stderr),
			Level:   alog.DebugLevel,
		},
	}
```

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md] for more information. Thank you, [contributors]!

[LICENSE]: /MIT-LICENSE
[CONTRIBUTING.md]: /CONTRIBUTING.md

## License

Copyright (c) 2015 Harlow Ward. It is free software, and may
be redistributed under the terms specified in the [LICENSE] file.

[contributors]: https://github.com/harlow/kinesis-connectors/graphs/contributors

> [www.hward.com](http://www.hward.com) &nbsp;&middot;&nbsp;
> GitHub [@harlow](https://github.com/harlow) &nbsp;&middot;&nbsp;
> Twitter [@harlow_ward](https://twitter.com/harlow_ward)

Commit message:

Add note about development on Consumer Groups

README.md, after:

# Golang Kinesis Consumer

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer) [![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer)

__Note:__ This repo is under active development adding [Consumer Groups #42](https://github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer/issues/42). Master should always be deployable, but expect breaking changes in master over the next few months. 

Latest stable release https://github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer/releases/tag/v0.3.2

Kinesis consumer applications written in Go. This library is intended to be a lightweight wrapper around the Kinesis API to read records, save checkpoints (with swappable backends), and gracefully recover from service timeouts/errors.

__Alternate serverless options:__

* [Kinesis to Firehose](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/writing-with-kinesis-streams.html) can be used to archive data directly to S3, Redshift, or Elasticsearch without running a consumer application.

* [Process Kinesis Streams with Golang and AWS Lambda](https://medium.com/@harlow/processing-kinesis-streams-w-aws-lambda-and-golang-264efc8f979a) for serverless processing and checkpoint management.

## Installation

Get the package source:

    $ go get github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer

## Overview

The consumer leverages a handler func that accepts a Kinesis record. The `Scan` method will consume all shards concurrently and call the callback func as it receives records from the stream.

_Important 1: The `Scan` func will also poll the stream to check for new shards, it will automatcially start consuming new shards added to the stream._

_Important 2: The default Log, Counter, and Checkpoint are no-op which means no logs, counts, or checkpoints will be emitted when scanning the stream. See the options below to override these defaults._

```go
import(
	// ...

	consumer "github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer"
)

func main() {
	var stream = flag.String("stream", "", "Stream name")
	flag.Parse()

	// consumer
	c, err := consumer.New(*stream)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalf("consumer error: %v", err)
	}

	// start scan
	err = c.Scan(context.TODO(), func(r *consumer.Record) error {
		fmt.Println(string(r.Data))
		return nil // continue scanning
	})
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatalf("scan error: %v", err)
	}

	// Note: If you need to aggregate based on a specific shard
	// the `ScanShard` function should be used instead.
}
```

## ScanFunc

ScanFunc is the type of the function called for each message read
from the stream. The record argument contains the original record
returned from the AWS Kinesis library.

```go
type ScanFunc func(r *Record) error
```

If an error is returned, scanning stops. The sole exception is when the
function returns the special value SkipCheckpoint.

```go
// continue scanning
return nil

// continue scanning, skip checkpoint
return consumer.SkipCheckpoint

// stop scanning, return error
return errors.New("my error, exit all scans")
```

Use context cancel to signal the scan to exit without error. For example if we wanted to gracefulloy exit the scan on interrupt.

```go
// trap SIGINT, wait to trigger shutdown
signals := make(chan os.Signal, 1)
signal.Notify(signals, os.Interrupt)

// context with cancel
ctx, cancel := context.WithCancel(context.Background())

go func() {
	<-signals
	cancel() // call cancellation
}()

err := c.Scan(ctx, func(r *consumer.Record) error {
	fmt.Println(string(r.Data))
	return nil // continue scanning
})
```

## Checkpoint

To record the progress of the consumer in the stream we use a checkpoint to store the last sequence number the consumer has read from a particular shard. The boolean value SkipCheckpoint of consumer.ScanError determines if checkpoint will be activated. ScanError is returned by the record processing callback.

This will allow consumers to re-launch and pick up at the position in the stream where they left off.

The uniq identifier for a consumer is `[appName, streamName, shardID]`

<img width="722" alt="kinesis-checkpoints" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/739782/33085867-d8336122-ce9a-11e7-8c8a-a8afeb09dff1.png">

Note: The default checkpoint is no-op. Which means the scan will not persist any state and the consumer will start from the beginning of the stream each time it is re-started.

To persist scan progress choose one of the following checkpoints:

### Redis Checkpoint

The Redis checkpoint requries App Name, and Stream Name:

```go
import checkpoint "github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer/checkpoint/redis"

// redis checkpoint
ck, err := checkpoint.New(appName)
if err != nil {
	log.Fatalf("new checkpoint error: %v", err)
}
```

### DynamoDB Checkpoint

The DynamoDB checkpoint requires Table Name, App Name, and Stream Name:

```go
import checkpoint "github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer/checkpoint/ddb"

// ddb checkpoint
ck, err := checkpoint.New(appName, tableName)
if err != nil {
	log.Fatalf("new checkpoint error: %v", err)
}

// Override the Kinesis if any needs on session (e.g. assume role)
myDynamoDbClient := dynamodb.New(session.New(aws.NewConfig()))

// For versions of AWS sdk that fixed config being picked up properly, the example of
// setting region should work.
//    myDynamoDbClient := dynamodb.New(session.New(aws.NewConfig()), &aws.Config{
//        Region: aws.String("us-west-2"),
//    })

ck, err := checkpoint.New(*app, *table, checkpoint.WithDynamoClient(myDynamoDbClient))
if err != nil {
  log.Fatalf("new checkpoint error: %v", err)
}

// Or we can provide your own Retryer to customize what triggers a retry inside checkpoint
// See code in examples
// ck, err := checkpoint.New(*app, *table, checkpoint.WithDynamoClient(myDynamoDbClient), checkpoint.WithRetryer(&MyRetryer{}))
```

To leverage the DDB checkpoint we'll also need to create a table:

```
Partition key: namespace
Sort key: shard_id
```

<img width="727" alt="screen shot 2017-11-22 at 7 59 36 pm" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/739782/33158557-b90e4228-cfbf-11e7-9a99-73b56a446f5f.png">

### Postgres Checkpoint

The Postgres checkpoint requires Table Name, App Name, Stream Name and ConnectionString:

```go
import checkpoint "github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer/checkpoint/postgres"

// postgres checkpoint
ck, err := checkpoint.New(app, table, connStr)
if err != nil {
  log.Fatalf("new checkpoint error: %v", err)
}

```

To leverage the Postgres checkpoint we'll also need to create a table:

```sql
CREATE TABLE kinesis_consumer (
	namespace text NOT NULL,
	shard_id text NOT NULL,
	sequence_number numeric NOT NULL,
	CONSTRAINT kinesis_consumer_pk PRIMARY KEY (namespace, shard_id)
);
```

The table name has to be the same that you specify when creating the checkpoint. The primary key composed by namespace and shard_id is mandatory in order to the checkpoint run without issues and also to ensure data integrity.

### Mysql Checkpoint

The Mysql checkpoint requires Table Name, App Name, Stream Name and ConnectionString (just like the Postgres checkpoint!):

```go
import checkpoint "github.com/harlow/kinesis-consumer/checkpoint/mysql"

// mysql checkpoint
ck, err := checkpoint.New(app, table, connStr)
if err != nil {
  log.Fatalf("new checkpoint error: %v", err)
}

```

To leverage the Mysql checkpoint we'll also need to create a table:

```sql
CREATE TABLE kinesis_consumer (
	namespace varchar(255) NOT NULL,
	shard_id varchar(255) NOT NULL,
	sequence_number numeric(65,0) NOT NULL,
	CONSTRAINT kinesis_consumer_pk PRIMARY KEY (namespace, shard_id)
);
```

The table name has to be the same that you specify when creating the checkpoint. The primary key composed by namespace and shard_id is mandatory in order to the checkpoint run without issues and also to ensure data integrity.

## Options

The consumer allows the following optional overrides.

### Kinesis Client

Override the Kinesis client if there is any special config needed:

```go
// client
client := kinesis.New(session.NewSession(aws.NewConfig()))

// consumer
c, err := consumer.New(streamName, consumer.WithClient(client))
```

### Metrics

Add optional counter for exposing counts for checkpoints and records processed:

```go
// counter
counter := expvar.NewMap("counters")

// consumer
c, err := consumer.New(streamName, consumer.WithCounter(counter))
```

The [expvar package](https://golang.org/pkg/expvar/) will display consumer counts:

```
"counters": {
    "checkpoints": 3,
    "records": 13005
},
```

### Consumer starting point

Kinesis allows consumers to specify where on the stream they'd like to start consuming from. The default in this library is `LATEST` (Start reading just after the most recent record in the shard).

This can be adjusted by using the `WithShardIteratorType` option in the library:

```go
// override starting place on stream to use TRIM_HORIZON
c, err := consumer.New(
  *stream,
  consumer.WithShardIteratorType(kinesis.ShardIteratorTypeTrimHorizon)
)
```

[See AWS Docs for more options.](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kinesis/latest/APIReference/API_GetShardIterator.html)

### Logging

Logging supports the basic built-in logging library or use thrid party external one, so long as
it implements the Logger interface.

For example, to use the builtin logging package, we wrap it with myLogger structure.

```
// A myLogger provides a minimalistic logger satisfying the Logger interface.
type myLogger struct {
	logger *log.Logger
}

// Log logs the parameters to the stdlib logger. See log.Println.
func (l *myLogger) Log(args ...interface{}) {
	l.logger.Println(args...)
}
```

The package defaults to `ioutil.Discard` so swallow all logs. This can be customized with the preferred logging strategy:

```go
// logger
logger := &myLogger{
	logger: log.New(os.Stdout, "consumer-example: ", log.LstdFlags),
}

// consumer
c, err := consumer.New(streamName, consumer.WithLogger(logger))
```

To use a more complicated logging library, e.g. apex log

```
type myLogger struct {
	logger *log.Logger
}

func (l *myLogger) Log(args ...interface{}) {
	l.logger.Infof("producer", args...)
}

func main() {
	log := &myLogger{
		logger: alog.Logger{
			Handler: text.New(os.Stderr),
			Level:   alog.DebugLevel,
		},
	}
```

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md] for more information. Thank you, [contributors]!

[LICENSE]: /MIT-LICENSE
[CONTRIBUTING.md]: /CONTRIBUTING.md

## License

Copyright (c) 2015 Harlow Ward. It is free software, and may
be redistributed under the terms specified in the [LICENSE] file.

[contributors]: https://github.com/harlow/kinesis-connectors/graphs/contributors

> [www.hward.com](http://www.hward.com) &nbsp;&middot;&nbsp;
> GitHub [@harlow](https://github.com/harlow) &nbsp;&middot;&nbsp;
> Twitter [@harlow_ward](https://twitter.com/harlow_ward)
